# Rustfetch
Rustfetch is a modern and highly customizable system information tool built in the Rust programming language similar to tools like Neofetch. It is highly modular and uses the `Lua` scripting language for custom modules. It also has support for custom ASCII art, custom color themes, etc... It still works out of the box if you don't want to configure anything.

**NOTE:** Rustfetch is still under development.


# Prerequisites
- A 64 bit Linux system. (No current support for MacOS/Windows)

**VERY IMPORTANT:** Rustfetch relies on `/proc/` files. These are files generated by your kernel. To assure that Rustfetch performs correctly, make sure you have a new(ish) **Linux** kernel version as older kernel versions can sometimes have different outputs.

- An x86_64 CPU. (No current support for ARM or 32 bit systems)

- Git


# Installation
## Stable release
The latest stable release is placed in the `download/` directory.

First, click on the `download` directory. You should see a `rustfetch` executable. Download that.


It is recommended to place rustfetch binaries in a separate directory. Here's an example:

```bash
mkdir .rustfetch
mv ~/Downloads/rustfetch .rustfetch
```
Replace `~/Downloads/rustfetch` with the actual binary's path that you downloaded.


### Adding `rustfetch` to your PATH
To add Rustfetch, add this line to the bottom of your `~/.bashrc` file:
```bash
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.rustfetch"
```
If you placed the Rustfetch binary elsewhere, replace `$HOME/rustfetch` with the path you picked.

### Make sure everything worked
Try running this:
```bash
rustfetch version --verbose
```

You should get an output **SIMILAR** to this:
```bash
Rustfetch: A modern and highly customizable system information tool.
GitHub Repo: https://github.com/xshotss/rustfetch
v0.1.0
```

### Post-install
Even after installing Rustfetch to your `PATH`, Rustfetch is still unusable. You need to run this handy command to configure everything.
```bash
rustfetch gen-config
```

**Troubleshooting**
If you get something like a `"Permission denied"` error, try running this:
```bash
chmod +x ~/.rustfetch/rustfetch
```

You only need to run this command once. This command adds a directory to your `~/.config/` directory called `rustfetch`.
You can do this to make sure it worked:
```bash
cd ~/.config/rustfetch
ls
```

This should contain the Rustfetch structure.
Now you can run Rustfetch and you should get the default Rustfetch output!
```bash
rustfetch
```


## Building from source (Nightly build)
If you want the absolute latest features, you can compile Rustfetch yourself.

**NOTE:** This way of using Rustfetch is not supported and is very likely to be unstable. Don't do this if you don't know what you're doing. 

You also need the full Rust compiler (cargo, rustc, etc...). Make sure you meet the default requirements too.

FIrst, clone the Git repository and go into it:
```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/xshotss/rustfetch.git
cd rustfetch
```

Now, you will need to build it. This can take a while.
```bash
cargo build --release --verbose
```

Now the binary will be located at `rustfetch/target/release/rustfetch`.
To add the release to your PATH, add this to the bottom of your `~/.bashrc` file:
```bash
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/rustfetch/target/release"
```
**Make sure that Rustfetch is located at ~/rustfetch**

### Post-install
Even after installing Rustfetch to your `PATH`, Rustfetch is still unusable. You need to run this handy command to configure everything.
```bash
rustfetch gen-config
```

**Troubleshooting**
If you get something like a `"Permission denied"` error, try running this:
```bash
chmod +x ~/rustfetch/target/release/rustfetch
```

You only need to run this command once. This command adds a directory to your `~/.config/` directory called `rustfetch`.
You can do this to make sure it worked:
```bash
cd ~/.config/rustfetch
ls
```

This should contain the Rustfetch structure.
Now you can run Rustfetch and you should get the default Rustfetch output!
```bash
rustfetch
```


# Configuration and scripting
**NOTE:** Some basic knowledge of Lua is required.

Rustfetch uses a highly configured Lua environment for scripting. The only Lua config file that is available is `~/.config/rustfetch/config.lua`. The limits of Rustfetch are basically just Lua's limitations.

**NOTE:** Rustfetch is still under development. Only builtin modules are currently allowed.


To configure Rustfetch, go to your `~/.config/rustfetch/config.lua` file.
This is the default Lua configuration:
```Lua
-- This is an automatically generated config file for Rustfetch.
-- Check the Github repo for help:
-- https://github.com/xshotss/rustfetch

-- All ASCII art files should be placed in ~/.config/rustfetch/ascii/
ascii = "tux.txt"

mode = "fancy"

show_ascii = true

modules = {
  CPU = {
    type = "builtin"
  },
  GPU = {
    type = "builtin"
  },
  Host = {
    type = "builtin"
  },
  Memory = {
    type = "builtin"
  }
}
```

## Custom ASCII
To add custom ASCII to Rustfetch, add a `.txt` file to your `~/.config/rustfetch/ascii` directory.
Then, go into your `config.lua` script and change the value of the `ascii` variable to the file's path that you just added.

## Builtin Modules
Rustfetch comes with some builtin modules like `GPU`, `CPU`, etc... All the builtin modules are already turned on by default. To remove one, just remove them from the `modules` table.

## Custom Modules
Coming soon...